.\" lsofrsall(1) — comprehensive all-in-one man page for lsofrs
.\" Modeled after zshall(1): every man page in one document.
.\" Render with:  man -l man/man1/lsofrsall.1
.\" Install:      cp man/man1/lsofrsall.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH LSOFRSALL 1 "2026-05-31" "lsofrs 4.8.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lsofrsall \- the lsofrs comprehensive reference (invocation, selection,
network, display, advanced modes, TUI, themes, architecture, performance)
.SH OVERVIEW
This is the all-in-one
.B lsofrs
manual, modeled on
.BR zshall (1).
It concatenates the major sections of the lsofrs reference into a single
page so you can grep with `/`:
.RS 2
.PP
.B 1.  INVOCATION
.RB "\(em " "basic usage, repeat mode, FILE arguments"
.br
.B 2.  SELECTION CRITERIA
.RB "\(em " "every -c/-d/-p/-u/-g flag, AND/OR mode"
.br
.B 3.  NETWORK SELECTION
.RB "\(em " "-i address syntax, -n/-P/-N/-U"
.br
.B 4.  DISPLAY FORMATS
.RB "\(em " "-F fields, -J JSON, -t terse, -0 NUL, --csv"
.br
.B 5.  ADVANCED LIVE MODES
.RB "\(em " "--tui, --top, --watch, --stale, --ports, --pipe-chain, --net-map, --tree, --monitor, --follow, --leak-detect, --summary, --delta"
.br
.B 6.  CYBERPUNK THEMES
.RB "\(em " "31 built-in themes, custom palette editor"
.br
.B 7.  INTERACTIVE CONTROLS
.RB "\(em " "every TUI keybinding"
.br
.B 8.  ARCHITECTURE
.RB "\(em " "FFI to Darwin / Linux / FreeBSD, rayon parallel gather"
.br
.B 9.  PERFORMANCE
.RB "\(em " "5\(en21x faster than lsof / lsofng"
.br
.B 10. ENVIRONMENT
.RB "\(em " "vars that influence lsofrs"
.br
.B 11. FILES
.RB "\(em " "config, completions, man pages"
.br
.B 12. EXIT STATUS
.br
.B 13. EXAMPLES
.RE
.PP
For a shorter quick-reference page see
.BR lsofrs (1).
.SH NAME
lsofrs, lsf \- list open files (modern Rust implementation of lsof)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsofrs
.RI [ OPTION ]...\&
.RI [ FILE ]...\&
.br
.B lsf
.RI [ OPTION ]...\&
.RI [ FILE ]...\&
.PP
.B lsf
is the shorter form of
.BR lsofrs
\(em same binary, quicker to type.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsofrs
maps the invisible topology between processes and the files they hold
open: regular files, directories, sockets, pipes, devices, kqueues \(em
anything the kernel touches.  If a process has a file descriptor,
.B lsofrs
sees it.
.PP
A Rust rewrite of
.BR lsofng (1)
with
.B zero-copy
.IR repr(C)
FFI to Darwin / Linux / FreeBSD kernel headers,
.B rayon
work-stealing per-PID FD enumeration, and a streaming
.IR "gather \(-> filter \(-> print"
pass.  When output goes to a TTY a cyberpunk theme is applied
(headers rewritten, ANSI color enabled); when piped or redirected,
plain output is used (safe for scripts).
.SH "1.  INVOCATION"
With no arguments,
.B lsofrs
lists every open file for every process visible to the calling user.
When one or more
.I FILE
arguments are given, only processes holding those files are shown.
.PP
The
.BI \-r " SECONDS"
flag puts
.B lsofrs
into repeat mode: re-scan every
.I SECONDS
seconds (default 1).  Combine with
.B \-\-delta
for change highlighting.
.PP
Combine selection flags with the boolean modifier
.BR \-a
to switch from the default OR behavior to AND.  For example,
.B "lsf \-a \-u root \-i TCP"
lists only TCP files owned by root, while
.B "lsf \-u root \-i TCP"
(no
.BR \-a )
lists every file owned by root plus every TCP file system-wide.
.SH "2.  SELECTION CRITERIA"
.TP
.B \-a
AND selection mode.  All specified filters must match a process for it
to appear.  Default is OR mode.
.TP
.BI \-c " COMMAND"
Select processes whose command name matches
.IR COMMAND .
Supports prefix matching, exclusion with
.BR ^ ,
and regular expressions enclosed in
.BR / .
Comma-separated for multiple values.
.RS
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.B "lsf \-c Chrome"
\(em prefix match.
.br
.B "lsf \-c ^Chrome"
\(em exclude Chrome.
.br
.B "lsf \-c /^firefox/"
\(em regex.
.br
.B "lsf \-c bash,zsh,fish"
\(em multiple.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-d " FD"
Select by file descriptor.  Accepts comma-separated values, ranges
.RI ( N \- M ),
and exclusions with
.BR ^ .
Special tokens like
.BR cwd ,
.BR rtd ,
.BR txt ,
.BR mem
are matched textually.
.TP
.BI \-g " PGID"
Select by process group ID.  Comma-separated;
.B ^
to exclude.
.TP
.BI \-p " PID"
Select by process ID.  Comma-separated;
.B ^
to exclude.
.TP
.BI \-u " USER"
Select by login name or UID.  Comma-separated;
.B ^
to exclude.
.SH "3.  NETWORK SELECTION"
.TP
.BI \-i " [ADDR]"
Select internet connections.  Optional address specification:
.BR [4|6][proto][@host|addr][:svc|port] .
Without an argument, selects all internet files.
.RS
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.B "lsf \-i TCP"
\(em all TCP.
.br
.B "lsf \-i 6"
\(em all IPv6.
.br
.B "lsf \-i :80"
\(em port 80 (any protocol).
.br
.B "lsf \-i TCP:22"
\(em SSH only.
.br
.B "lsf \-i @192.168.1.1"
\(em connections to/from one host.
.br
.B "lsf \-i 4UDP@dns:53"
\(em IPv4 UDP to DNS port 53.
.RE
.TP
.B \-n
Inhibit conversion of host numbers to host names.  Faster (no DNS
lookups) and avoids hangs on broken resolvers.
.TP
.B \-N
Select NFS files only.
.TP
.B \-P
Inhibit conversion of port numbers to port names.  Faster and avoids
.IR /etc/services
parsing.
.TP
.B \-U
Select UNIX domain socket files only.
.SH "4.  DISPLAY FORMATS"
.TP
.BI \-F " [FIELDS]"
Produce machine-readable field output.  Each output line is prefixed
with a single character identifying the field.  Field characters:
.RS
.PP
.B p
\(em PID
.br
.B c
\(em command name
.br
.B f
\(em file descriptor
.br
.B n
\(em file name / path
.br
.B t
\(em file type (REG, DIR, IPv4, IPv6, PIPE, ...)
.br
.B u
\(em UID
.br
.B L
\(em login name
.br
.B s
\(em file size
.br
.B i
\(em inode
.br
.B d
\(em device number
.br
.B g
\(em PGID
.br
.B R
\(em parent PID
.RE
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-json
Emit each row as a JSON object, one per line (JSONL/NDJSON).
Compatible with
.BR jq (1).
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Pure CSV output (RFC 4180 quoting) for spreadsheets and pipelines.
Header row included unless suppressed.
.TP
.B \-R
Show parent PID column (PPID).
.TP
.B \-\-pgid\-show
Show process group ID column (PGID).
.TP
.B \-t
Terse output: print PIDs only, one per line.  Useful with
.BR xargs (1)
for killing matched processes.
.TP
.B \-0
Use NUL byte as the field terminator instead of newline in
.B \-F
output.  Safe for filenames containing newlines.
.TP
.B \-w
Suppress warning messages on stderr.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.SH "5.  ADVANCED LIVE MODES"
.SS 5.1 Unified TUI (\-\-tui)
Full-screen tabbed dashboard with all modes in one interface.  7
clickable tabs, 31 color themes, mouse support, hover and right-click
tooltips, theme chooser and editor, config persistence.
.PP
.B Tabs:
TOP | SUMMARY | PORTS | TREE | NET-MAP | PIPES | STALE.  Click tab or
press Tab / 1\-7 to switch.
.PP
.B Bottom bar:
.RS 2
.PP
.B ">>> LSOFRS <<< \(or procs:N \(or files:N \(or tcp:N udp:N unix:N pipe:N \(or rate:Ns \(or theme:NAME \(or paused:no \(or h=help \(or HH:MM:SS"
.RE
.PP
Each
.B \(or
segment is a hover zone with verbose tooltip.
.PP
.B Examples:
.PP
.B "lsf \-\-tui"
\(em launch TUI, restore last tab and theme.
.br
.B "lsf \-\-tui \-\-theme matrix"
\(em launch with Matrix theme.
.br
.B "sudo lsf \-\-tui"
\(em full visibility (all processes).
.SS 5.2 Top-N Dashboard (\-\-top)
Live auto-refreshing dashboard of the top processes sorted by FD count.
Like
.BR iotop (1)
for file descriptors \(em shows FD type distribution bars, delta
tracking, per-process breakdowns.
.PP
.BI \-\-top " [N]"
defaults to 20.  Top-specific keys:
.B s
cycle sort,
.B r
reverse,
.BR + / \-
show more/fewer,
.B b
toggle distribution bar,
.B d
toggle delta column.
.SS 5.3 File Watch (\-\-watch FILE)
Monitor who opens and closes a specific file over time.  Prints
timestamped
.B +OPEN
/
.B \-CLOSE
events as they happen \(em a lightweight
.BR inotifywait (1)
/
.BR fs_usage (1)
for a single path.  Each event shows timestamp, open/close tag, PID,
user, FD, command.  When piped, prints a single snapshot and exits.
.SS 5.4 Stale FDs (\-\-stale)
Find file descriptors pointing to deleted files \(em a common source of
disk-space leaks, zombie file handles, and security issues.  Combine
with
.B \-u USER
to scope to one user.  Supports
.B \-\-json
output.
.SS 5.5 Listening Ports (\-\-ports)
Quick "what's listening where" summary, like
.B "ss \-tlnp"
but cross-platform (macOS + Linux).  Use
.B \-\-json
for JSON output;
.B "\-u root"
to scope to a user.
.SS 5.6 Pipe Chain (\-\-pipe-chain)
Trace pipe and UNIX socket pairs between processes \(em visualize the
IPC topology.  Combine with
.B \-c
to scope to one command tree.
.SS 5.7 Network Map (\-\-net-map)
Group network connections by remote host \(em see which servers your
system talks to and how many connections each has.
.SS 5.8 CSV Export (\-\-csv)
Pure CSV output for pipelines, spreadsheets, and data analysis.
RFC 4180-compliant quoting.  Combine with selection flags and redirect
to file:
.B "lsf \-\-csv \-p 1234 > out.csv"
.SS 5.9 Process Tree (\-\-tree)
Hierarchical process tree view with FD counts, type breakdowns, and
network connection counts.  Like
.BR pstree (1)
meets
.BR lsof (8).
Each node shows: PID, user, FD count, command, type breakdown
.RI ( [REG:12 IPv4:3 PIPE:2] ),
network connection count.  Notable files (sockets, pipes) listed inline
under each process.
.SS 5.10 Live Monitor (\-\-monitor / \-W)
Full-screen alternate-buffer display like
.BR top (1).
Auto-refreshes; interactive controls.  Keys:
.B s
sort,
.B r
reverse,
.B f
filter,
.B p
pause,
.B ?
help,
.B q
quit.
.SS 5.11 Follow Mode (\-\-follow PID)
Watch a single process's FDs in real-time.  New opens highlighted
.B +NEW
in green, closes
.B \-DEL
in red.
.SS 5.12 FD Leak Detection (\-\-leak-detect)
Monitors per-process FD counts over time.  Flags processes with
monotonically increasing FD counts.
.PP
.BR \-\-leak-detect [= INTERVAL [, THRESHOLD ]]
defaults to 5-second interval, 3-iteration threshold (minimum 2).
.SS 5.13 Summary / Statistics (\-\-summary)
Aggregate FD breakdown with bar charts, top processes, per-user totals.
Add
.B \-r N
for live auto-refreshing TUI mode.
Add
.B \-i
for network-only summary.
.SS 5.14 Delta Highlighting (\-\-delta)
Color-code changes between repeat iterations.  New FDs in green, gone
in red.  Combine with
.B "\-r SECONDS"
for live monitoring.
.SH "6.  CYBERPUNK THEMES"
When output goes to a TTY,
.B lsofrs
activates cyberpunk-themed column headers and ANSI coloring:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
T{
.B Piped
T}|T{
.B TTY
T}
COMMAND|PROCESS
PID|PRC
USER|H4XOR
TYPE|CL4SS
DEVICE|DEV/ICE
SIZE/OFF|BYT3/0FF
NODE|N0DE
NAME|T4RGET
.TE
.PP
When piped or redirected, plain headers and no colors are used \(em
safe for scripts.
.PP
.B 31 built-in themes
are selectable via
.B \-\-theme NAME
or interactively via
.B c
in TUI modes.  Theme editor
.RB ( C )
creates custom 6-color palettes, adjustable 0\-255 per channel, named
and saved to
.IR ~/.lsofrs.conf .
.SH "7.  INTERACTIVE CONTROLS"
All live TUI modes
.RB ( \-\-tui ,
.BR \-\-top ,
.BR "\-\-summary \-r" )
share common keybindings.
.SS Common keys
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
1\-9|Set refresh interval (seconds)
< / >|Fine-adjust refresh interval (\(+-1s)
p|Pause/resume data collection
? / h|Toggle help overlay
c|Open theme chooser (31 themes with swatches)
C|Open theme editor (custom 6-color palettes)
T|Toggle hover tooltips (right-click still works)
x|Toggle border
t|Toggle compact/expanded view
o|Freeze/unfreeze sort order
/|Filter popup (regex search)
0|Clear filter
j/k/Up/Down|Navigate rows
F|Pin/unpin selected row
y|Copy selected row to clipboard
e|Export current tab to file
q / Esc / Ctrl-C|Quit
.TE
.SS \-\-tui additional keys
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
Tab / Right|Next tab
BackTab / Left|Previous tab
1\-7|Jump to tab by number
Click tab|Switch to clicked tab
Right-click row|Verbose tooltip (PID, FDs, kill hints)
Hover 1s|Auto-tooltip (disappears on mouse move)
.TE
.SS \-\-top additional keys
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Key|.B Action
s|Cycle sort column (FDs/PID/USER/REG/SOCK/PIPE/OTHER/DELTA/CMD)
r|Reverse sort order
+ / \-|Show more/fewer processes (\(+-5)
b|Toggle distribution bar column
d|Toggle delta column
.TE
.PP
Non-TTY (piped) output always does a single-shot print and exits \(em no
TUI, no key handling.
.SH "8.  ARCHITECTURE"
.B lsofrs
is structured as a streaming
.IR "gather \(-> filter \(-> print"
pipeline.  Per-platform FFI modules
.RB ( darwin.rs ,
.BR linux.rs ,
.BR freebsd.rs )
expose a uniform
.B Process
/
.B OpenFile
data model;
.B filter.rs
applies selection criteria;
.B output.rs
,
.BR json.rs ,
.BR csv_out.rs
format the result.
.PP
.B Per-PID FD enumeration is rayon-parallelized,
fanning out across every CPU core.  Username lookups
.RB ( "getpwuid_r" )
are cached behind
.B OnceCell
to avoid repeated NSS hits.  Service-name lookups
.RB ( "getservbyport" )
are similarly cached.
.PP
.B FFI is zero-copy.
Kernel structures are described as
.B repr(C)
Rust structs and read directly from
.BR libproc (Darwin),
.BR /proc (Linux),
.BR sysctl (FreeBSD)
with no intermediate string copies.
.PP
.B File layout:
.PP
.RS 2
.nf
src/main.rs       \(em CLI entry, dispatch, repeat / leak loops
src/cli.rs        \(em clap argument definitions + custom help
src/types.rs      \(em core data structures
src/darwin.rs     \(em macOS libproc FFI (rayon parallel)
src/linux.rs      \(em Linux /proc filesystem (rayon parallel)
src/freebsd.rs    \(em FreeBSD sysctl + procfs
src/filter.rs     \(em selection & filtering
src/strutil.rs    \(em safe UTF-8 truncation for fixed-width display
src/output.rs     \(em columnar & field output, ANSI theming
src/json.rs       \(em JSON serialization (serde)
src/monitor.rs    \(em live full-screen (crossterm alternate screen)
src/follow.rs     \(em single-process FD tracking
src/leak.rs       \(em circular-buffer leak detector
src/delta.rs      \(em iteration-diff engine
src/summary.rs    \(em aggregate statistics with bar charts
src/tree.rs       \(em process tree with FD inheritance
src/tui_app.rs    \(em shared TUI framework (TuiMode trait, ratatui)
src/tui_tabs.rs   \(em unified tabbed TUI (--tui)
src/theme.rs      \(em 31 color themes + custom theme support
src/config.rs     \(em TOML config persistence (~/.lsofrs.conf)
src/top.rs        \(em live top-N FD dashboard
src/watch.rs      \(em file watch
src/stale.rs      \(em stale FD finder
src/ports.rs      \(em listening ports summary
src/pipe_chain.rs \(em pipe/socket IPC topology
src/csv_out.rs    \(em CSV export
src/net_map.rs    \(em network connection grouping
.fi
.RE
.SH "9.  PERFORMANCE"
Benchmarks on a ~470-process / ~5,000-FD macOS box,
.BR hyperfine (1),
10 runs, 3 warmup:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l l l.
.B Workload|.B lsofrs|.B lsof 4.91|.B lsofng
All open files (default)|14.2 ms|169.8 ms|175.5 ms
Network connections (-i TCP)|11.5 ms|110.5 ms|140.1 ms
Terse output (-t, PIDs only)|6.9 ms|101.4 ms|142.9 ms
Structured (-J JSON / -F)|29.3 ms|156.1 ms|136.7 ms
.TE
.PP
.B Speedup:
5\(en21x faster than traditional lsof implementations.  Rayon-parallel
per-PID FD enumeration + zero-copy FFI structs + OnceCell-cached
username lookups account for the bulk of the win.
.SH "10. ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B LSOFRS_CONF
Override the config file path (default
.IR ~/.lsofrs.conf ).
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set,
.B lsofrs
emits plain headers and no ANSI color even on a TTY.  See
.UR https://no-color.org/
NO_COLOR specification
.UE .
.TP
.B TERM
Used to detect terminal capability for color and TUI modes.  Setting
to
.B dumb
disables color and TUI.
.SH "11. FILES"
.TP
.I ~/.lsofrs.conf
TOML config file: persists last-used TUI tab, theme selection, custom
6-color palettes, and per-mode preferences.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/lsofrs.1
Short reference man page.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/lsofrsall.1
This man page.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/_lsofrs
Zsh completion function (installed separately from the
.IR completions/
directory in the source tree).
.SH "12. EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred, or no matching files were found.
.SH "13. EXAMPLES"
.PP
List all open files (default behavior):
.RS
.nf
lsf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Files opened by PID 1234:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-p 1234
.fi
.RE
.PP
Everything Chrome is touching:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-c Chrome
.fi
.RE
.PP
List processes using a specific file:
.RS
.nf
lsf /var/log/syslog
.fi
.RE
.PP
All TCP connections:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-i TCP
.fi
.RE
.PP
What's listening on port 8080:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-i :8080
.fi
.RE
.PP
Files owned by root:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-u root
.fi
.RE
.PP
Process tree for root's processes:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-tree \-u root
.fi
.RE
.PP
JSON output of all open files:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-json
.fi
.RE
.PP
JSON for one PID, piped through jq:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-J \-p 1234 | jq '.name'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Detect FD leaks polling every 10 seconds with threshold 5:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-leak\-detect=10,5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show listening ports:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-ports
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find deleted files still held open:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-stale
.fi
.RE
.PP
Live monitor mode (full-screen):
.RS
.nf
lsf \-W
.fi
.RE
.PP
Launch the unified TUI with Matrix theme:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-tui \-\-theme matrix
.fi
.RE
.PP
Repeat every 2 seconds with delta highlighting:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-r 2 \-\-delta
.fi
.RE
.PP
CSV export filtered by user:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-csv \-u www\-data
.fi
.RE
.PP
Network connection map:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-net\-map
.fi
.RE
.PP
Trace pipe chains between processes:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-\-pipe\-chain
.fi
.RE
.PP
Kill every process matching a name:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-t \-c badprocess | xargs kill
.fi
.RE
.PP
AND mode: only TCP connections by root:
.RS
.nf
lsf \-a \-u root \-i TCP
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsofrs (1),
.BR lsof (8),
.BR fstat (1),
.BR ss (8),
.BR netstat (1),
.BR pstree (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR proc (5),
.BR strykeall (1),
.BR zshrsall (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B Jacob Menke
.RI < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies >
.PP
A Rust rewrite of
.BR lsofng (1)
by Jacob Menke, which itself is a modernized fork of the original
.BR lsof (8)
by Vic Abell.
