.TH LSOFRS 1 "2026-07-02" "lsofrs 4.9.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lsofrs \- list open files (modern Rust implementation)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsofrs
.RI [ OPTION ]...\&
.RI [ FILE ]...\&
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsofrs
maps the relationship between processes and the files they hold open.
It supports regular files, directories, sockets, pipes, devices, and streams
on macOS, Linux, and FreeBSD.
.PP
When invoked without arguments, it lists all open files for all processes
visible to the current user.
When one or more
.I FILE
arguments are given, only processes using those files are shown.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Selection
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.TP
.B \-a
AND selection mode.
All specified filters must match a process for it to appear.
The default is OR mode.
.TP
.BI \-c " COMMAND"
Select processes whose command name matches
.IR COMMAND .
Supports prefix matching, exclusion with
.BR ^ ,
and regular expressions enclosed in
.BR / .
Comma-separated for multiple values.
.TP
.BI \-d " FD"
Select by file descriptor.
Accepts comma-separated values, ranges
.RI ( N \- M ),
and exclusions with
.BR ^ .
.TP
.BI \-g " PGID"
Select by process group ID.
Comma-separated;
.B ^
to exclude.
.TP
.BI \-p " PID"
Select by process ID.
Comma-separated;
.B ^
to exclude.
.TP
.BI \-u " USER"
Select by login name or UID.
Comma-separated;
.B ^
to exclude.
.SS Network
.TP
.BI \-i " [ADDR]"
Select internet connections.
Optional address specification:
.BR [4|6][proto][@host|addr][:svc|port] .
Without an argument, selects all internet files.
.TP
.B \-n
Inhibit conversion of host numbers to host names.
.TP
.B \-N
Select NFS files.
.TP
.B \-P
Inhibit conversion of port numbers to port names.
.TP
.B \-U
Select UNIX domain socket files.
.SS Display
.TP
.BI \-F " [FIELDS]"
Produce output suitable for processing by another program.
Field characters:
.BR p =PID,
.BR c =command,
.BR f =FD,
.BR n =name,
.BR t =type,
etc.
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-json
Output in JSON format.
.TP
.BI +L " [n]"
List file link counts in an
.B NLINK
column.
.B +L
alone lists all link counts;
.BI +L n
selects only files whose link count is less than
.IR n .
A specification of
.B +L1
selects open files that have been unlinked (link count 0).
.TP
.B \-l
Display the numeric user ID instead of converting it to a login name.
.TP
.BI \-o " [n]"
Always display the file offset (rather than size) in the SIZE/OFF column.
An optional
.I n
sets the number of decimal digits.
.TP
.B \-s
Without a value, always display the file size in the SIZE/OFF column.
With a
.IR proto : state
value (e.g.
.BR TCP:LISTEN ),
select only sockets in the given protocol state.
.TP
.BI +c " [w]"
Set the command column width to
.I w
initial characters;
.B +c0
disables truncation. Default is 15.
.TP
.B \-T
Request TCP/TPI information; the connection state is already shown by default.
.TP
.B \-R
Show parent PID column.
.TP
.B \-\-pgid\-show
Show process group ID column.
.TP
.B \-t
Terse output: print PIDs only, one per line.
.TP
.B \-0
Use NUL as the field terminator instead of newline in
.B \-F
output.
.TP
.B \-w
Suppress warning messages.
.TP
.B \-V
Report search specifications (\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-c\fR, \fB\-u\fR, named files)
that matched nothing, one per line on standard error.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.SS System / Live Modes
.TP
.BI \-r " [SECONDS]"
Repeat mode: re-scan every
.I SECONDS
(default: 1).
.TP
.B \-\-delta
Highlight new and gone file descriptors in repeat mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-leak\-detect "[=INTERVAL[,THRESHOLD]]"
Detect file descriptor leaks by polling every
.I INTERVAL
seconds (default: 5).
Report when a process's FD count has grown in at least
.I THRESHOLD
consecutive iterations (default: 3, minimum: 2).
.TP
.B \-\-stall
Per-FD socket backpressure classifier. Polls each socket file descriptor's
kernel send/recv buffer occupancy across successive samples and issues a
directional verdict per
.RB ( pid ", " fd ):
.B TX-STALLED
(send buffer persistently near capacity and not draining \(em the peer is not
reading),
.B RX-STARVED
(recv buffer persistently high and growing \(em the local process is not
draining it), or
.BR HEALTHY .
Combine with
.B \-r
to control the sampling interval. On macOS classification is fill-ratio based
(buffer limits are known); on Linux the queue occupancies come from
.I /proc/net/tcp
and a trend rule is used.
.TP
.BR \-W ", " \-\-monitor
Live full-screen refresh mode, similar to
.BR top (1).
.TP
.BR \-\-summary ", " \-\-stats
Display an aggregate FD summary: type breakdown, top processes by FD count,
and per-user statistics.
.TP
.BI \-\-follow " PID"
Watch a single process's file descriptors in real-time,
highlighting opens and closes.
.TP
.BI \-\-watch " FILE"
Watch who opens and closes a specific file over time.
.TP
.B \-\-tree
Process tree view with FD counts, similar to
.BR pstree (1)
combined with
.BR lsof (8).
.TP
.BI \-\-top " [N]"
Live top-N processes by file descriptor count (default: 20).
.TP
.B \-\-stale
Find file descriptors pointing to deleted files.
.TP
.B \-\-ports
Show listening ports summary, similar to
.BR "ss \-tlnp" .
.TP
.B \-\-pipe\-chain
Trace pipe and socket IPC pairs between processes.
.TP
.B \-\-csv
Output in CSV format for spreadsheets and pipelines.
.TP
.B \-\-net\-map
Display network connections grouped by remote host.
.SH EXAMPLES
List files using port 8080:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-i :8080
.fi
.RE
.PP
List files opened by PID 1234:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-p 1234
.fi
.RE
.PP
List files opened by root:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-u root
.fi
.RE
.PP
Process tree for root's processes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-tree \-u root
.fi
.RE
.PP
List processes using a specific file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs /var/log/syslog
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all TCP connections:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-i TCP
.fi
.RE
.PP
JSON output of all open files:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Detect FD leaks polling every 10 seconds with threshold 5:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-leak\-detect=10,5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show listening ports:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-ports
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find deleted files still held open:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-stale
.fi
.RE
.PP
Live monitor mode (full-screen):
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-W
.fi
.RE
.PP
Repeat every 2 seconds with delta highlighting:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-r 2 \-\-delta
.fi
.RE
.PP
CSV export filtered by user:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-csv \-u www\-data
.fi
.RE
.PP
Network connection map:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-net\-map
.fi
.RE
.PP
Trace pipe chains between processes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
lsofrs \-\-pipe\-chain
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred, or no matching files were found.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsof (8),
.BR fstat (1),
.BR ss (8),
.BR netstat (1),
.BR pstree (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR proc (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Jacob Menke
.RI < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies >
